[Music]
[Applause]
so why do some people become successful
and rich and others don't that's a tough
question
but there's no denying the fact that
upbringing plays an important role in it
all parents want the best possible
future for their kids but unfortunately
not all of them know how to raise their
children to be financially smart and
ready for big achievements if your
parents do or did the things from this
list you're headed for success in life
number one they make their kids feel
responsible if a kid does something
wrong good parents don't just scold and
punish them they let their child face
the consequences of his or her behavior
and fix the situation for example if a
child breaks a cup they're told what
they can do to clean the mess giving
clear instructions that'll help a kid
sort out a situation on their own will
work much better than nagging that's how
children will not only understand that
it's important to be more careful with
stuff since it costs money but also
learn to be more responsible and of
course being responsible for your
actions is one of the most crucial
traits of character when it comes to
future success number two they teach
their kids how to save money
every grown-up knows that you'll
struggle to manager income if you're bad
at saving money adult life is about
realizing that you can't have it all
right away first you have to plan how
you're going to get it that's why just
like adults save money for a vacation or
a car a kid should learn to put aside
their pocket money as well most parents
buy them piggy banks or just use old
jars the child decides what they want to
save up money for and put special labels
on the jars an expensive toy or new
bicycle would be a good example that's a
great way to show a kid how to spend the
money wisely avoiding splurging on a
momentary whim like a bunch of candy
[Music]
number three they educate kids on money
for some reason there are parents who
avoid talking with their kids about
money these kids most likely believe
money appears in the ATM by the wave of
a magical wand if it were only true
obviously children with these beliefs
have lower chances to be financially
stable when they grow up
because without financial education
children don't understand the real worth
of money that's why it's important to
include a child in discussions about
budgeting and spending going shopping
great now you both take some time to
talk over the shopping list is there
some way to spend a bit less by giving
up an item or finding a cheaper
alternative it's better when kids know
how much their parents earn that way
they realize that money isn't some
unending resource which in turn teaches
them the necessity of being thrifty
number four they don't instill negative
beliefs in their children unfortunately
some parents sometimes say stuff that
ruins a child's confidence in themselves
phrases like you can't do anything right
or you're a real failure might at some
point come out of their mouths without
realizing what a devastating effect it
can have on their kids future it's
obvious that a person who doesn't
believe in themselves has a
tough time achieving things in life and
has huge doubts about taking steps
toward their goals financial negativity
sounds like money is the root of all
evil or it's impossible to get rich and
stay an honest person at the same time a
child who keeps hearing this stuff at
home won't be motivated to even try to
make their dreams come true but let's
get real here money isn't evil it's just
a piece of paper it's all about how you
use it and of course there are tons of
stories when people made fortunes simply
by being proactive and really
hard-working by the way do you know any
of them
if yes tell me about it in the comments
below that's why a good parent tries
their best to focus a kids attention on
their talents and strong points building
their self-esteem and also adults should
raise their children with the faith that
everything is possible if you put enough
effort into achieving it number five
they praise their kids the right way
it's natural to praise kids for their
achievements no matter how small they
are but it's also important to praise
them for the hard work and effort they
made that led to the accomplishments for
example if a kid got an a on the test a
parent should Pat them on the back not
for a great grade but for the diligent
studying or if a child won some
competition they should be praised not
for the prize but for the numerous
training sessions that led to the
outcome that's how a kid will understand
that it's not just all about results the
effort you make towards your goal
deserves to be noticed and respected
despite the outcome and even if you fail
to achieve something your work won't be
in vain because you sharpened your
skills and have added to your experience
that's why praising a child for doing
their best is a great way to show them
what real success is about most likely
when kids grow up there will be a period
in their life when they have to work
hard without any visible results and
acknowledging and admiring their own
diligence will help them to stay on
track
number six they teach kids how to be
independent
having overprotective parents might be
the biggest reason why kids don't
succeed later in life I mean why would
you bother doing something on your own
if you know someone else will do it for
you right of course such parents don't
mean any harm and they sincerely believe
they're acing the raising a kid game but
in reality they set up their children
for a future full of failure a child
will feel like they're not capable of
doing anything on their own and they'll
even be scared to try such kids don't
see any point in exploring the
possibilities life gives them since
their parents attitude caused a sense of
insecurity in their own abilities now
let's play a guessing game what are the
chances these kids will become rich yeah
it's somewhere around zero because
success has a lot to do with being able
to try new things to risk and to
overcome your fears and doubts number
seven they make kids do chores do you
like taking the trash out all but not
but you do it anyway there are a lot of
things we do just because we have to and
we can thank our parents for that even
the youngest kid in the family should
have some responsibilities when it comes
to household chores it can be as small
as putting their favorite toy on the
shelf from an early age a child should
know that each member of the family has
to contribute somehow to the betterment
of the whole that's not only a great way
to teach kids how to be responsible but
it also helps them realize how important
collaborating is when it comes to
getting things done you wash the dishes
I clean the floor and wallah
the kitchen is spotless and I can't
stress enough how being a good team
player who doesn't slack is important
for a future career number eight they
have family rituals
now here comes a bit of science a study
published in 2015 in the American
Journal of Public Health reveals that
children with strong social skills and
kindergarten
will thrive as adults in case you didn't
know the best and the most enjoyable way
to encourage these social skills is by
having family rituals simple things like
cooking meals together playing board
games evening walks and annual vacations
help create an atmosphere of acceptance
and belonging these feelings are what we
gain through communication not only with
our family but other people as well and
I'm sure you agree with me that great
communicating skills is something any
successful person has because we're
social beings and have to know how to
navigate in a world full of people and
this brings me to my last point number
nine they help kids build meaningful
relationships having strong
relationships is essential for
children's growth and psychological
well-being kids who don't have
meaningful relationships tend to have
lower academic results and are more
likely to misbehave in the worst cases
they might even have psychological
problems that's why parents who want
their kids to succeed help them foster
healthy and strong relationships by
scheduling playdates with other kids and
encouraging them to take part in
activities they enjoy the experience
from those activities teaches children
how to manage their emotions and resolve
conflicts which are a must for a
grown-up who tries to build a prosperous
life but how about you is there anything
you could add to this list let me know
down in the comments if you learned
something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend but hey don't go take out
the trash just yet we have over 2000
cool videos for you to check out all you
have to do is pick the left or right
video click on it and enjoy stay on the
bright side of life